# Getting Started

This guide covers getting started with a brand new HM Platform project.

After reading this guide, you'll know:

* How to start a new HM Platform project
* How to run your HM Platform project locally
* The layout of an HM Platform project


## Core concepts in HM Platform

Before you get started, it's important to be aware of a few core concepts in HM Platform. These concepts affect how you think about and build sites for HM Platform.

With HM Platform, you will work on a **project**. This encompasses the codebase and the hosting provided by HM Cloud. Each project can have multiple **sites**, which can represent multiple domains, subdomains, or other distinct websites. Sites within a single project share a common codebase, but can have different customisations applied to each site.

Custom functionality on top of the HM Platform platform is implemented via **plugins**. Each major feature generally has a separate plugin, and these can be enabled or disabled for each site. They can also be enabled across the entire project.

Design and styling of sites is implemented via **themes**. Projects can contain many themes, and each site has a single theme active. Themes can be shared across sites, or used on only a single site.


## Creating a new HM Platform project

The quickest way to get started with HM Platform is to use Composer. If you don't already have Composer, [follow the Composer installation guide](https://getcomposer.org/download/).

To get started, run:

```
composer create-project -s dev humanmade/skeleton my-project
```

Follow the interactive prompts to get started.

This will create a new directory called `my-project`, set up the project, and install the Composer dependencies. This directory is now ready for you to start working on.


## Your project's layout

Your project directory will contain a number of autogenerated files and directories.

* `composer.json` and `composer.lock` - These files allow you to specify the dependencies for your project. These files are used by Composer.
* `content/` - Contains all the functional code that makes up your project.
	* `mu-plugins/` - Contains any custom modules for your project.
	* `plugins/` - Contains WordPress plugins which can be activated on a per-site basis.
	* `themes/` - Contains the available themes for your project.
* `index.php` - The main entrypoint used by HM Platform. Don't edit this file.
* `vendor/` - Contains the third-party dependencies for your project, including HM Platform.
* `wordpress/` - Contains WordPress, the core CMS used by HM Platform.
* `wp-config.php` - The main configuration used by HM Platform. Don't edit this file.

Generally, you'll be mostly working on files inside the `content` directory. This directory contains most of your project-specific code, including new functionality (in the form of "plugins") and visual styling (in the form of "themes").

To start using your project, you'll need to set up a development environment.


## Running your project locally

For local development, you'll also need to add a local server to your development dependencies. HM Platform offers two options:

* Local Server, for a lightweight development environment, built on Docker
* Chassis, for a full virtual machine environment, built on Vagrant and VirtualBox

We recommend Local Server for new projects and developers, and Chassis for developers familiar with Chassis.


### Setting up Local Server

HM Platform Local Server is a lightweight development environment based on [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).

Local Server requires Docker. We recommend [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) for Windows and Mac.

To set up Local Server, run the following inside your project's directory:

```
composer require --dev humanmade/local-server
```

This will add Local Server to your development dependencies and prepare it to be run.

To start Local Server, run `composer local-server start`.

The first time you run Local Server, it may take a little longer, as it sets up services on your computer. Once this is complete, you will now have a working local site at `https://your-project.altis.dev/`.


### Setting up Chassis

Chassis for HM Platform is a fully-featured development environment based on [Chassis](https://chassis.io/).

Chassis requires [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/).

To set up Chassis for HM Platform, run the following inside your project's directory:

```
composer require --dev humanmade/platform-local-chassis
composer chassis init
```

This will add Chassis to your development dependencies and prepare it to be run.

To start Chassis, run `vagrant up`.

The first time you run Chassis, it may take a little longer, as it sets up the virtual machine. Once this is complete, you will now have a working local site at http://vagrant.local/


## Ready for development!

When you first view your local site, you'll see the HM Platform splash page. This indicates that the site has been set up, and is awaiting your custom code.

To get started with development, you can start working on [your first theme](first-theme.md) to change the visual style of your project.
