---
order: 12
---
# Upgrading to v12

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide here](../migrating-from-wordpress.md) first._

To upgrade to Altis v12, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment modules to `^12.0.0`.

```json
{
	"require": {
		"altis/altis": "^12.0.0"
	},
	"require-dev": {
		"altis/local-chassis": "^12.0.0",
		"altis/local-server": "^12.0.0"
	},
	"config": {
		"platform": {
			"php": "8.0"
		}
	}
}
```

Once you have made these changes run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate

# For local chassis
composer chassis exec -- wp altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

### PHP 8.0 ###

Altis v12 fully supports PHP 8.0 in both local and cloud environments. Support for earlier versions of PHP has been deprecated and will be removed in future versions. There are plenty of [backward incompatible changes](https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration80.incompatible.php) in PHP 8.0 which should be addressed. Local Server will also run PHP 8.0 by default unless version 7.4 is [explicitly requested](docs://local-server/php-version/).

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

### Asset Loader ###

We've updated the humanmade/asset-loader dependency from 0.5.0 to 0.6.1. As part of this change, the following previously deprecated methods in the asset-loader were removed: `autoregister`, `autoenqueue`, and `register_assets`. If your Altis project is using the asset-loader library directly, it is recommended to run a search for these functions across your codebase when upgrading to Altis v12.

## Headline Features

### Codespaces Support ###

Altis now has support for [GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces), which is a cloud-based development environment directly inside the browser. This makes it possible to quickly launch and work on Altis projects without having to install any of the development tools on your local computer. It also allows you to share preview environments with colleagues.

Visit our complete guide to [get started with Altis in Codespaces](docs://dev-tools/cloud-dev-env/).
