---
order: 14
---

# Upgrading to v14

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out
the [migrating guide here](../migrating-from-wordpress.md) first._

To upgrade to Altis v14, edit your `composer.json` and change the version
constraint for `altis/altis` and any local
environment modules to `^14.0.0`.

```json
{
  "require": {
	"altis/altis": "^14.0.0"
  },
  "require-dev": {
	"altis/local-server": "^14.0.0"
  },
  "config": {
	"platform": {
	  "php": "8.0"
	}
  }
}
```

Once you have made these changes run `composer update` and then run
the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Changes to the Altis platform

We’re making some major changes to the way we build and deliver the Altis platform.

The primary change is the unbundling of several parts of the Altis platform, with these features being available through
plugins instead. This includes the third-party plugins we bundle, as well as a some of our core modules.

These changes will allow us to deliver more value faster, and will provide you with more control over upgrades.

Features provided in earlier versions will continue to be supported per our [long-term support policy](docs://guides/long-term-support.md).

### Digital experience tools are moving to a plugin

Future improvements to the analytics module, Experience Blocks and Global Blocks, and more will be delivered through the
new Altis Accelerate plugin. Learn more at https://www.altis-dxp.com/accelerate/

## Breaking Changes

### Modules removed  ###

#### Extended CPTs

Altis v14 no longer includes the `johnbillion/extended-cpts` package. If your
project requires it &mdash; if you are calling `register_extended_post_type()`
or `register_extended_taxonomy()` in your code &mdash; you can include it by
adding it as a dependency in your top-level `composer.json` file.

```sh
# Add Extended CPTs support
composer require johnbillion/extended-cpts
```

#### Workflows and Editorial Comments

Altis v14 no longer includes the `workflows` functionality. If you want to use
that functionality, you need to add the framework to your project.
In your top level project folder, add the `humanmade/workflows` framework
package.

```sh
# Add Workflows package
composer require humanmade/workflows
```

This provides the framework to create your own workflow as well as the
"Editorial Comments" functionality.

Altis Analytics also used the Workflows functionality to provide notifications
of Experiment results and so on. If you wish to reproduce that behaviour, you
can use the example in this [GitHub Gist](https://gist.github.com/mikelittle/f73ce199705d85f9a91431e9b88ad60a).

#### Clone and Amend functionality

Altis v14 no longer provides Yoast Duplicate Post plugin that provided "Clone" and "Amend" functionality. However, you
can install the off-the-shelf plugin in your project's `composer.json` file.

```shell
## Add the Yoast Duplicate Post plugin
composer require wpackagist-plugin/duplicate-post
```

Note: The plugin uses the terms "Clone" and "Copy to a new draft" instead of "Clone" and "Rewrite & Republish" instead of
"Amend". Otherwise, the functionality is the same.

#### Publication Checklist

The Publication Checklist feature has been removed from Altis v14. If you wish
to use that functionality you can add the `humanmade/publication-checklist`
package to your project.

```sh
# Add publication checklist example
composer require humanmade/publication-checklist
```

This will provide you with the framework to write your own publication
checklist. If you want to use the previous Altis demo functionality as a
starting point, take a look at
the [Demo GitHub repository](https://github.com/humanmade/demo-publication-checklist)

#### WordPress SSO

Altis no longer natively supports using an external WordPress site as a Single
Sign On server. There are a number of off-the-shelf plugins providing this
functionality. Or you can roll your own perhaps
using [Delegated OAuth library](https://github.com/humanmade/delegated-oauth2)
as a starting point.

```php
// This example code is a starting point assuming you `require "humanmade/delegated-oauth2"` in your composer.json

define( 'HM_DELEGATED_AUTH_REST_BASE', 'https://your-oauth-server-url.tld/wp-json/' );
define( 'HM_DELEGATED_AUTH_CLIENT_ID', 'abc123xyz456' );
define( 'HM_DELEGATED_AUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN_CACHE_TTL', 60);
require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/humanmade/delegated-oauth/plugin.php';
```

#### Multilingual Module

The Multilingual Module has been removed from Altis v14. This provided no
specific functionality. Rather some documented guidance. To add multilingual
capability to your Altis project you can continue
to [use off-the-shelf plugins](docs://getting-started/third-party-plugins/)
such as [MultilingualPress](https://multilingualpress.org/).

#### Authorship

The Authorship plugin has been removed from Altis v14. If you wish
to use that functionality you can add the open source `humanmade/authorship`
package to your project.

```sh
# Add publication checklist example
composer require humanmade/authorship
```

#### Robots.txt Support

Altis no longer includes support for a custom robots.txt file. Instead, you can
use WordPress' built-in support for robots.txt
If you previously had some custom rules in the file `.config/robots.txt` in the
root of your project, you can add those rules to
the standard robots.txt returned from WordPress by hooking in to
the `robots_txt` filter.

```php
add_filter( 'robots_txt', 'my_extra_robots_txt_rules', 10 );

/**
 * Add extra robots.txt rules.
 *
 * @param string $content robots.txt file content generated by WordPress.
 *
 * @return string robots.txt file content including custom configuration.
 */
function my_extra_robots_txt_rules( $content ) {

	return $content . <<<ROBOTS

User-agent: Googlebot 
Disallow: /example-sub-folder/

User-agent: * 
Disallow: *.rss$

Sitemap: https://your-domain.tld/special-sitemap.xml

ROBOTS;
}
```

#### Sitemaps support

Altis no longer includes support for additional sitemaps functionality via the
Yoast SEO plugin. Instead, you can use the built-in functionality provided out of
the box by WordPress, which is enabled automatically. Additionally, several
off-the-shelf plugins (including Yoast SEO) provide functionality to enhance or
replace WordPress' functionality.

#### Yoast SEO Plugin

Altis no longer provides the Yoast SEO plugin. However, you can install the
off-the-shelf plugin in your projects `composer.json` file.

```shell
## Add the Yoast SEO plugin
composer require wpackagist-plugin/wordpress-seo
```

If you are using the premium version of the plugin, follow
the [instructions on the Yoast website](https://yoast.com/help/how-to-install-yoast-plugins-using-composer/)
.

#### Lazy loading via GaussHolder functionality


As WordPress provides lazy loading of images by default Altis no longer provides
that functionality. See
the [Lazy Loading announcement](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2020/07/14/lazy-loading-images-in-5-5/)
for more details.

If you still require the Gaussholder image placeholder functionality, you can
add [humanmade/Gaussholder](https://github.com/humanmade/Gaussholder) to your project.

```bash
## Add Gaussholder library
composer require humanmade/gaussholder
```

Then hook into the `gaussholder.image_sizes` filter.

```php
add_filter( 'gaussholder.image_sizes', function ( $sizes ) {
	$sizes['medium'] = 16;
	$sizes['large'] = 32;
	$sizes['full'] = 84;
	return $sizes;
} );
```

Note: You can experiment to determine the best sizes (blur radius) to use. See
the [documentation on Github](https://github.com/humanmade/Gaussholder#readme).

## Headline Features


### WordPress 6.1

WordPress 6.1 brings with it further refinement of the site building experience. Site creation is now more intuitive.
Several writing-focused improvements will delight your content creators. New design tools for more control.
Additionally, there is improved accessibility, and performance.

The [WordPress 6.1 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2022/10/12/wordpress-6-1-field-guide/) is a great place
to learn about what's new. Here are some of the highlights:

- Design tools for more consistency and control
- More responsive text
  with [fluid typography](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2022/08/04/whats-new-in-gutenberg-13-8-3-august/#fluid-typography-support)
- WordPress 6.1 includes a new time-to-read feature showing content authors the approximate time-to-read values for pages, posts,
  and custom post types.
- Enhanced [Accessibility](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2022/10/11/wordpress-6-1-accessibility-improvements/)

### Altis Core improvements 

A number of modules and libraries have been updated to incorporate important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation 

Some of our developer focussed documentation hase been clarified and improved, taking on board feedback from our customers and partners. 
There is now a [documentation lint command](docs://dev-tools/linting-your-documents/) for your custom modules.

### Altis CLI

We have launched a new tool, Altis CLI for running Altis utilities and commands. It is currently in beta and we would
love you to try it out and [send us any feedback](mailto://support@altis-dxp.com).

To install it, you need `node` version v18 or later.

```shell
# Install globally:
npm install -g @humanmade/altis-cli

# Run it:
altis-cli
```

### Detailed infrastructure metrics & graphs

We have added detailed infrastructure metrics to the Altis Dashboard. These metrics include Requests, Error rates,
Response times, cache evictions and more. 
