---
order: 15
---

# Upgrading to v15

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out
the [migrating guide here](../migrating-from-wordpress.md) first._

To upgrade to Altis v15, edit your `composer.json` and change the version
constraint for `altis/altis` and any local
environment modules to `^15.0.0`.

```json
{
  "require": {
	"altis/altis": "^15.0.0"
  },
  "require-dev": {
	"altis/local-server": "^15.0.0"
  },
  "config": {
	"platform": {
	  "php": "8.2"
	}
  }
}
```

Once you have made these changes run `composer update` and then run
the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Changes to the Altis platform

<!---
RELEVANT CHANGES REQUIRING CUSTOMER ATTENTION ON v15 GOES IN THIS SECTION 
--->

## Breaking Changes

### PHP 8.2 ###

Altis v15 fully supports PHP 8.2 in both local and cloud environments. There are a number of [backward incompatible changes](https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration82.incompatible.php) in PHP 8.2 which should be taken into consideration and addressed.

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

### PHP 7.4 Security Support ###

In Altis v13 the support for PHP 7.4 has been removed, and customers asked to follow the [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for information on how to upgrade to PHP 8.0 or PHP 8.1.

Security is one of our top priorities and as the upgrade to PHP 8.X is taking longer than anticipated for some customers we are adding security support to legacy environments running on PHP 7.4.



## Headline Features


### WordPress 6.2

WordPress 6.1 brings with it further refinement of the site building experience. Site creation is now more intuitive.
Several writing-focused improvements will delight your content creators. New design tools for more control.
Additionally, there is improved accessibility, and performance.

The [WordPress 6.2 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2023/03/09/wordpress-6-2-field-guide/) is a great place
to learn about what's new. Here are some of the highlights:

- A reimagined Site Editor
- Introducing the HTML API
- Bundled fonts in Themes

### Altis Core improvements 

A number of modules and libraries have been updated to incorporate important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation 

Some of our developer focussed documentation hase been clarified and improved, taking on board feedback from our customers and partners. 
There is now a [documentation lint command](docs://dev-tools/linting-your-documents/) for your custom modules.

### Self-service Domain Management (beta)

Self-service domain management is available in beta in the Altis Dashboard. With this new feature you can manage the domain names attached to your Altis instance without the need to open a support case. 
