---
order: 16
---

# Upgrading to v16

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first._

To upgrade to Altis v16, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local
environment modules to `^16.0.0`.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "altis/altis": "^16.0.0"
    },
    "require-dev": {
        "altis/local-server": "^16.0.0"
    },
    "config": {
        "platform": {
            "php": "8.0"
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have made these changes run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

### PHP 8.2

Altis v16 continues our experimental support for PHP 8.2 in both local and cloud environments. We have improved compatibility with
PHP 8.2 (and 8.1) but there are a number
of [backward incompatible changes](https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration82.incompatible.php) in PHP 8.2 which you should take into
consideration.

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading
information.

## Headline Features

### Afterburner

Altis v16 comes with Afterburner support which is a drop-in implementation of the WP Object Cache API and WordPress'
translation API as a PHP Extension backed by Redis.

We created our own PHP extension just to optimise WordPress performance. We’ve taken the slowest,
most-used parts of WordPress, and re-implemented them to squeeze every drop of performance out of your site.

To activate Afterburner on your environment, [create a support ticket](support://new) with the request.

### Altis Core improvements

We made over twenty-five updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.
This includes the WordPress CMS, which we updated to version 6.2.2.

### Documentation

Our developer focussed documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our
customers and partners is always welcome. Please [send us any feedback you have](support://new).
