---
order: 17
---

# Upgrading to v17

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out
the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first._

To upgrade to Altis v17, edit your `composer.json` and change the version
constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment modules to `^17.0.0`.

```json
{
	"require": {
		"altis/altis": "^17.0.0"
	},
	"require-dev": {
		"altis/local-server": "^17.0.0"
	},
	"config": {
		"platform": {
			"php": "8.1"
		}
	}
}
```

Once you have made these changes run `composer update` and then run
the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

## Changes to the Altis platform

We have removed the Analytics module, Experience Blocks and Global Blocks from
the Altis platform. These are now delivered through the new Altis Accelerate
plugin. Learn more at https://www.altis-dxp.com/accelerate/.

This change will allow us to deliver more value faster, and will provide you
with more control over upgrades.

Features provided in earlier versions will continue to be supported per
our [long-term support policy](docs://guides/long-term-support.md).

The original features are currently still available as a standalone plugin.
You can include it by adding it as a dependency in your
top-level `composer.json` file.

```sh
# Add Altis Analytics support
composer require altis/analytics
```

If it is not already set, you will also need to add configuration for the
module to your `composer.json` file. It is no longer enabled by default.

```json
{
	"extra": {
		"altis": {
			"analytics": {
				"enabled": true
			}
		}
	}
}
```

### PHP 8.1

PHP 8.1 is now our recommended version of PHP for Altis. We have improved
support for it but note that there are a number of exceptions to
compatability in the core WordPress CMS module. See the [WordPress
documentation on compatibility](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/references/php-compatibility-and-wordpress-versions/)
for more information.

### PHP 8.2 ###

Altis v17 continues our experimental support for PHP 8.2 in both local and cloud
environments. We have improved compatability with PHP 8.2 (and 8.1) but there
are a number
of [backward incompatible changes](https://www.php.net/manual/en/migration82.incompatible.php)
in PHP 8.2 which you should take into consideration.

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date
compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

## Headline Features

### WordPress 6.3.1

WordPress 6.3.1 brings a number of new features, bug fixes, and improvements,
including:

- the Block Selectors API,
- the WordPress Command Palette,
- updates to the Social Icons block,
- improvements to the cache API,
- and multiple performance improvements.

See
the [WordPress 6.3 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2023/07/18/wordpress-6-3-field-guide/)
for more information.

### Altis Core improvements

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in
important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focussed documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback
from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](mailto://support@altis-dxp.com).
