---
order: 19
---

# Upgrading to v19

_If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out
the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first._

To upgrade to Altis v19, edit your `composer.json` and change the version
constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment modules to `^19.0.0`.

```json
{
	"require": {
		"altis/altis": "^19.0.0"
	},
	"require-dev": {
		"altis/local-server": "^19.0.0"
	},
	"config": {
		"platform": {
			"php": "8.1"
		}
	}
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run
the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

## Changes to the Altis platform

### PHP

PHP 8.1 and 8.2 are our recommended versions of PHP for Altis. Note that there are a small number of exceptions to
Compatibility in the core WordPress CMS module. See the [WordPress
documentation on compatibility](https://make.wordpress.org/core/handbook/references/php-compatibility-and-wordpress-versions/)
for more information.

PHP 8.0 is no longer supported in Altis.

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date
compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

## Headline Features

### WordPress 6.5.0

WordPress 6.5.0 brings lots of new features, bug fixes, and improvements. There are hundreds of enhancements, new
features, bug fixes, and more. The block editor alone has almost 100 updates. These improvements include:

- Performance and accessibility enhancements,
- Performant Translations,
- Block– and Site–Editor Unification,
- A new Font Library, and design tool enhancements, and
- Support for [AVIF images](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/02/23/wordpress-6-5-adds-avif-support/).

See the
[WordPress 6.5 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/03/15/wordpress-6-5-field-guide/) for more
information.

There are new and improved features of interest to developers such as:

- The Block Bindings and Interactivity APIs,
- Classic themes and Site Editor updates,
- Native JavaScript module support,
- Plugin dependencies, and more.

#### MySQL 8.0 in Local Server

Altis [Local Server](docs://local-server) now supports MySQL v8.0. New installations will use MySQL 8.0 by default, but
you can choose between 5.7 and 8.0 while you do your testing. Switching to 8.0 will automatically upgrade your database.
See the [Database documentation](docs://local-server/database.md) for details.

### Altis Core improvements

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focussed documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback
from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](mailto:support@altis-dxp.com).
