---
order: 20
---

# Upgrading to v20

*If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first.*

To upgrade to Altis v20, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment
modules to `^20.0.0`.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "altis/altis": "^20.0.0"
    },
    "require-dev": {
        "altis/local-server": "^20.0.0"
    },
    "config": {
        "platform": {
            "php": "8.2"
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

## Changes to the Altis platform

Altis dev tools now come with `wp-browser` 4.x and `Codeception` 5.x This upgrade has some breaking changes. Please refer to
the [wp-browser release notes](https://github.com/lucatume/wp-browser/releases/tag/4.0.0)
and [Codeception release post](https://codeception.com/07-28-2022/codeception-5.html)

## PHP

We have added experimental support for PHP 8.3. This is not yet recommended for production use but you can test your code with
PHP 8.3 in [Local Server](docs://local-server/).

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

## Headline Features

### Node.js

Altis now supports running Node.js applications alongside WordPress, utilizing WordPress as a headless API. See [our Node.js
documentation](docs://cloud/nodejs/) for more information. This is an experimental feature, you can enable it in Local Server, and
we welcome feedback.

### WordPress 6.6.1

WordPress 6.6 brings lots of new features, bug fixes, and improvements across the board. In particular, there are improvements
in performance and accessibility, and new features and updates for the block editor (Gutenberg) and the block API.
There have been theming improvements of interest to theme developers and designers.

For developers, the Options API has been improved again, allowing more flexibility in fine-tuning your application performance.
WordPress 6.6 also drops support for PHP7.0 and 7.1 but given Altis doesn't support PHP 7 at all, this will not affect your
Altis sites. A number of new filter and action hooks have been added and improvements to modernise the code and apply coding
standards have been made.

See the
[WordPress 6.6 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/06/25/wordpress-6-6-field-guide/) for more information.

### Altis Core improvements

Altis dev tools now come with `wp-browser` 4 and `Codeception` 5. This brings full support for PHP 8+, as well as improvements to
both tools. See the [wp-browser release notes](https://github.com/lucatume/wp-browser/releases/tag/4.0.0)
and [Codeception release post](https://codeception.com/07-28-2022/codeception-5.html)

Local server now supports TablePlus as well as Sequel Ace.

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focused documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](mailto:support@altis-dxp.com).
