---
order: 21
---

# Upgrading to v21

*If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first.*

To upgrade to Altis v21, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment
modules to `^21.0.0`.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "altis/altis": "^21.0.0"
    },
    "require-dev": {
        "altis/local-server": "^21.0.0"
    },
    "config": {
        "platform": {
            "php": "8.2"
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Breaking Changes

## Changes to the Altis platform

Altis Local Server no longer supports MySQL version 5.7. Please make sure to back up your database before upgrading. The database
will be upgraded automatically and we don't expect any issue, but it is always prudent to have a backup.

## PHP

We continue with our experimental support for PHP 8.3. This is not yet recommended for production use, but you can test
your code with PHP 8.3 in [Local Server](docs://local-server/).

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

## Headline Features

### Node.js

We continue to improve Altis support for Node.js applications alongside WordPress. This is an experimental feature, you can enable
it in Local Server, and we welcome feedback.

### WordPress 6.7

WordPress 6.7 brings lots of new features, bug fixes, and improvements across the board. In particular, there are improvements
in performance and accessibility, and exciting new features for the block editor. A brand-new default theme, Twenty 
Twenty-Five makes its debut in this release. Additionally, there have been many theming improvements of interest to theme 
developers and designers.

For developers, updates to the Interactivity API, including a new way to interact with server state changes in client-side
navigation, and improvements for loading existing scripts as module dependencies.

See the
[WordPress 6.7 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/10/23/wordpress-6-7-field-guide/) for more information.

### WordPress CLI 2.11

We updated WP CLI to version 2.11. This brings new features and bug fixes, including the ability to manage your signup list, manage
unknown image sizes, an `i18n make-php` command and multisite commands now can specify `--slug`.

### Altis Core improvements

As always, we continue to incorporated updates and security fixes to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes 
and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focused documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](mailto:support@altis-dxp.com).
