---
order: 22
---

# Upgrading to v22

*If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first.*

To upgrade to Altis v22, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment
modules to `^22.0.0`.

```json
{
	"require": {
		"altis/altis": "^22.0.0"
	},
	"require-dev": {
		"altis/local-server": "^22.0.0"
	},
	"config": {
		"platform": {
			"php": "8.2"
		}
	}
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## PHP

We now fully support PHP 8.3, allowing you to use it seamlessly in your projects. If you’d like to test your code locally, you can do so with [Local Server](docs://local-server/).

Refer to our [PHP Version Guide](docs://guides/updating-php/) for up-to-date compatibility, testing and upgrading information.

## Headline Features

### WordPress 6.7.1

WordPress 6.7.1 is a fast-follow maintenance release that addresses 16 bugs introduced in WordPress 6.7. This update focuses on improving stability across Core and the Block Editor.

Key fixes include:
- Resolving UI issues in the Customizer.
- Fixing image handling in the Block Editor, including PNG-to-JPEG conversion and Safari uploads.
- Enhancements to the Interactivity API, ensuring consistency between client and server states.
- Improvements to translation handling and text domain loading.
- Fixes for login page styling, image editing menu localization and more.

This release ensures a smoother experience for both users and developers.

You can review a summary of the maintenance updates in this release by reading the [WordPress 6.7.1 Release Candidate announcement](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/11/20/wordpress-6-7-1-rc1-is-now-available/).

See the [WordPress 6.7 Field Guide](https://make.wordpress.org/core/2024/10/23/wordpress-6-7-field-guide/) for more information.

### Altis Local Server Features

#### New create-alias Command for WP-CLI

Altis Local Server now includes a create-alias command, making it easier to use WP-CLI by generating an alias for the PHP Docker container. This allows users to run commands with a simpler syntax, such as `wp @local [command]`. This feature is useful for those with WP-CLI installed locally, enabling a more familiar and streamlined workflow with shorter commands and tab completion support.

#### **default-site-url** Override Option for WP-CLI

Altis now allows setting a default site URL for WP-CLI commands, ensuring they operate on the correct site within a local environment. This is beneficial when the main site runs on a subpath rather than the root URL.

By configuring this option, developers can avoid unintended operations on the wrong site and improve workflow efficiency.

For more details, refer to the [default site URL documentation](docs://local-server/cli/#default-site-url).

### Altis Core improvements

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focused documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](support://new).
