---
order: 24
---

# Upgrading to v24

*If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first.*

To upgrade to Altis v24, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment
modules to `^24.0.0`.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "altis/altis": "^24.0.0"
    },
    "require-dev": {
        "altis/local-server": "^24.0.0"
    },
    "config": {
        "platform": {
            "php": "8.2"
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Headline Features

### Altis CLI Improvements

The [Altis CLI](docs://cloud/cli/) app has been reworked to bring the tool bang up to date with the latest JavaScript
development standards. This means increased stability and security improvements.

#### Why It Matters

It makes it easier for us to continue to build new features and improvements to the CLI, which is a key part of the Altis
developer experience.

#### What's Next

You tell us. We are keen to hear what CLI features you would like to see next. Give the tool a go and let us know what you think.
Please [send us any feedback you have](support://new).

### Altis Dashboard Features

In order to empower and improve developer experience we continue to ship self-service features and improvements to the Dashboard. In
this release we have updated soem of the existing features as well as laying the groundwork for future ones.

#### Self-Service PHP Upgrades

The Self-service PHP upgrades we introduced in the last release have been refined and improved. In particular some tricky
edge-cases are now handled better.

This update builds on our ongoing mission to give developers greater control over their infrastructure, just like with
Composer-managed WordPress versions. We're continuing to explore ways to further streamline your development experience.

#### Domains Management

We have improved the domains management experience in the Dashboard, making it easier to manage your domains and subdomains.
Some of those tricky DNS issue are now handled better. We make it clearer why certificate validation fails, and you can now retry
the validation process from the Dashboard.

You now have the ability to delete domains and subdomains from the Dashboard.

### Altis Local Server Improvements

Core parts of the Local Server stack have been updated to the latest versions of the underlying thirty-party dependencies.

### Altis Core improvements

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focused documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](support://new).
