---
order: 25
---

# Upgrading to v25

*If you are migrating from WordPress to Altis, check out the [migrating guide](../migrating/) first.*

To upgrade to Altis v25, edit your `composer.json` and change the version constraint for `altis/altis` and any local environment
modules to `^25.0.0`.

```json
{
    "require": {
        "altis/altis": "^25.0.0"
    },
    "require-dev": {
        "altis/local-server": "^25.0.0"
    },
    "config": {
        "platform": {
            "php": "8.3"
        }
    }
}
```

Once you have made these changes, run `composer update` and then run the `wp altis migrate` command:

```sh
# For cloud environments
wp altis migrate

# For local server
composer server cli -- altis migrate
```

## Headline Features

### Support for PHP 8.4

Altis v25 introduces support for PHP 8.4. It will first be available for testing in local server, then made available for upgrade
on development, staging and production environments.

#### Breaking changes:

- Deprecation of `php-v8js`: with the release of Altis v25, `php-v8js` is removed for PHP 8.4 and deprecated for earlier PHP
versions.

- All required dependencies have been updated to support the new version of PHP.

- You might still see a couple of warnings here and there, but we are working on fixing them.

- We have updated the default PHP version to 8.3.

### Altis Dashboard Features

#### Self-managed Allow list / Block list

You can now add individual IP addresses and ranges to allow lists to make sure they are never filtered,
Similarly, you can add IP addresses and ranges to block lists to stop those annoying offenders. Our automatic Web Application Firewall (WAF) still protects your sites out of the box,
these are additional manual controls on top of it.

#### Advanced traffic management 

We have implemented advanced traffic management - which includes Bot control. It will be rolled out in select environments first.
Contact your account manager if you are interested.

#### Log shipping

You can now get your access logs automatically exported to an S3 bucket for processing and analyisi by external tools. Contact your account manager if youare interested.

#### Improved deployment reliability

We have addressed stability issues with cavalcade during deployments.

### Altis Local Server Improvements

Core parts of the Local Server stack have been updated to the latest versions of the underlying thirty-party dependencies. PHP 8.4
is now available for testing.

### Altis Core improvements

We have incorporated many updates to modules and libraries in Altis to bring in important bug fixes and improvements.

### Documentation

Our developer focused documentation has been improved again. As usual, feedback from our customers and partners is always welcome.
Please [send us any feedback you have](support://new).
